[Music]
someone once told me a house is not
self-maintaining and that includes
doorknobs hi I'm mark Donovan from home
Edition plus comm and today I want to
show you how to replace the simple
doorknob so first we will begin by
removing the old doorknob we just
removed the two screws off the back of
the door so once we remove the screws
off the back of the doorknob we can just
separate the two pieces and pull them
off the door next we'll remove the old
latch assembly by just pushing our
screwdriver to the right and pulling out
the back I'm going to slide in the new
latch assembly and we're going to have
to slightly chisel out an area to make
sure the latch plate fits flush against
the door so I'm going to mark it with a
pencil and then use a chisel to lightly
clean this area out approximately a
sixteenth of an inch okay now that we've
chiseled out a little bit of material
for the latch we can slide it in and
then attach our wood screws to firmly
hold the latch in place now we take the
doorknob itself with a lock side on the
inside of the room and slide it into the
latch assembly and then we put the fun
portion of the doorknob oh and we line
up the screws and we'll just put the
screws in and this doorknob will be done
alright so now that we have the doorknob
on tightly we're going to put on the new
strike plate and then this tire during
our project will be all set
so we first remove the old strike plate
and we'll install the new one it should
fit nicely over the existing holes so
now that we have the strike plate on and
the doorknob we're ready to give the
doorknob a test okay so with our new
doorknob on we'll give it a try make
sure it latches properly yep looks good
so that's it if you have any other
home-improvement questions visit us at
Home Edition plus calm today
[Music]